like to call the january
2022 regular pennsylvania county school
board meeting to order
i appreciate everyone being here if
you're bear with us just a minute we
have some closed items to take care of
and then we'll get to the regular open
meet do i have a motion to certify
closed and related action items
so move
second
okay
leader roll coleman's handcuffed mr
burton aye mr doss all right mr
henderson aye ms merricks aye mr mills
aye mr moon all
all right and y'all gonna have to bear
with me i'm getting used to this again
and i actually need a roll call for the
members first if you'll go ahead and do
that roll call on amazon cop mr burton
aye mr house aye ms henderson aye ms
merricks aye mr mills aye mr moon aye
reverend ramsey aye
okay items from closed session
motion to approve personnel changes for
january 11 2022 is presented
do i have a motion
second
roll call miss hancock mr burton aye mr
doss aye mr henderson aye ms merricks
aye mr meals aye mr moon all right
reverend ramsey all right
that's all close items
okay we're going to the open items i
want again i want to thank each of you
for being here tonight um y'all have to
bear with me a minute it's been a while
since i've done this so i kind of gotta
get back in the hang of it again
but uh
it's hard to believe that we're already
halfway through a school year it seems
we just started
so um time's moving on i would like to
remind people right now we are still
under the mass mandate that has not
changed
if it changes you know have a new
governor coming in so
i look for changes but as of right now
it has not if there's any changes to the
orders
we will review them and take appropriate
action at the time those changes take
place
so i will ask you tonight to keep your
mask on and keep it up
if you do come to the podium to speak
you can remove it
and
talk to the into the mic and please be
clear and loud so the people at home can
hear you
i understand sometimes they have a
little bit of trouble with that
i'm gonna try to keep my mask on here i
hope y'all can hear me okay
i'm pretty close to the mic okay we've
gotta go thumbs up
um
so i would do appreciate that and again
i welcome each of you here tonight
um
do we have any additions to the agenda
i don't have a motion to approve the
agenda as is
i'll make good motion
second i have a motion in a second
approve agenda
roll call ms hancock mr burton aye mr
doss aye mr henderson aye ms merrick aye
mr mills aye mr moon aye reverend ramsey
aye
uh do i have a motion to approve the
consent agenda
we'll have a second
second
i have a motion a second for the consent
agenda roll columnist hancock mr burton
aye mr doss aye mr henderson aye ms
merricks aye mr mills aye mr moon aye
reverend ramsey all right
okay under public presentations now we
have the character word of the month
miss kegger rice and i hope i pronounced
that close
[Laughter]
thank you
well as you all know melee keg rice um
good evening everyone and happy new year
um as we enter 2022 i am sure you all
have a plethora of resolutions after the
tumultuous 2021
from committing to going to the gym and
dieting to reading more often
my resolution was to keep my room clean
because as a stereotypical teenager my
mom my room looks like a tornado blew
through a majority of the time
keeping my room clean was not my big
ticket resolution however in the new
year i am also committing to being more
responsible
what exactly is responsibility and how
does it impact day-to-day life one may
ask
i like to think of responsibility as the
marriage of mindfulness and
accountability
in order to be a good friend neighbor
and citizen we all must be mindful of
the consequences of our actions and how
they affect others
many of the things we enjoy and share as
a community like our roads parks
libraries and more are a result of our
neighbors including ourselves behaving
responsibly and caring for these
privileges
while letting a bag of trash fall off
the back of your pickup and driving away
may be more convenient than pulling over
and retrieving it littering dirties
other people's property and hurts our
delicate environment
along with mindfulness we must also hold
ourselves accountable this means
understanding and accepting the
consequences of one's actions like
accepting the fine you'd get for
littering
but fines and criminal charges certainly
should be
something that keeps you from being
responsible or makes you responsible
but it should not be your ultimate
incentive
while i will not go to jail for not
cleaning my room for a week it doesn't
mean that i have to deal with
maneuvering around the rather
inconvenient mess however i know that if
i act responsibly clean my room then
everything will be nicely organized
again i will feel accomplished and my
mom won't have to bother me about it
anymore
being responsible can at times feel like
a chore but ultimately being responsible
will make your life as well as the lives
of others around you a whole lot easier
i hope the new year treats everyone
kindly and that we are all responsible
enough to keep our resolutions at least
for another week
thank you
thank
you next on the agenda we're going to
have requests to address the board i
will please ask that you limit it to
three minutes
please be respectful and adhere to your
three minutes there is a clock up
when you get to the three minutes i will
ask you to stop
and
i would like you to stop at that time
please
the first one is mr fisher
thank you
we the people of the united states in
order to form a more perfect union
establish justice ensure domestic
tranquility provide for the common
defense promote the general welfare and
secure the blessings of liberty to
ourselves and our posterity to ordain
and establish this constitution
for the united states of america but do
our children know
the supreme law of our nation exists in
the name of our people including them do
our children know
they are a part
of the supreme ruling classification the
authority by which representative
government exists to represent and serve
them among all the people of the united
states
do our children know this constitutional
republic belongs to them
as the people
do our children know this promise exists
under the equal protection of law
do our children know of our nation's
hero founders do our children know of
our brave sons of liberty
they will know
when the education excellence project
grows to full effect they will know
as subjects and classes reading writing
arithmetic history science continue to
be faithfully presented
and yet rested from certain opponents of
education excellence our western
tradition opponents of primacy of
natural law opponents of the inalienable
rights of every human opponents who vie
against
our american way
education must be secured from
distraction
free of slanders and preventations so
our children know what is exceptional
exceptional about america without any
political bias or fraudulent hidden
agenda our opportunity is to faithfully
serve our children so they will know
their greatest hopes lie in the future
that is individually
and that individually secures their
liberty as liberty is the true parent of
science and industry progress and
productivity themselves and thus they
will know how truly they are our future
and our future is secure in them if they
choose to be sons and daughters of
american individual liberty also
thank you
thank you mr fisher
next is miss parker
good evening school board members dr
jones and all in attendance my name is
valerie parker and i'm a teacher at
gretna high school
why am i here
we received memos last week that we
should present our vaccination status to
the central office by monday january
10th
as i speak to you tonight i'm thinking
of the teachers that are just getting
started and they love their teaching
assignments
i also am thinking of the middle age
teacher that has years of teaching
experience and they look forward to many
more
i'm thinking of the older teachers that
may be old enough to retire however they
too still love teaching and want to
continue for years to come
most of us are aware that the supreme
court will be deciding over the next few
days or weeks on accepting or not
accepting vaccine mandates
if mandates are upheld in the courts
and if exemptions are required i hope
that the school board will accept all
exemptions including natural immunity
which studies have shown to have 27
times the protection against the coveted
virus as opposed to taking a shot
do not accept all exemptions will put an
undue financial and emotional hardship
on all of the employees it will provide
hardships as the classrooms buses and
other areas become overpopulated
if mandates are upheld and testing is
required i hope that all employees will
be treated equally regardless of their
vaccination status
studies have shown that the vaccinated
can still transmit this virus to the
unvaccinated and vice versa
this will give more protection to all
employees and students as opposed to
having just one group test each week
i also hope that pennsylvania county
schools will assume the cost for the
testing since it would become a weekly
requirement for employment if these
mandates are upheld
i also hope that testing will be
performed on the work site for
convenience for all employees
in conclusions
in conclusion if the mandates are upheld
in the courts it is my hope that you as
a school board will
accept all exemptions submitted if they
are required
if testing is required all employees
should be treated equally regardless of
their vaccination status
pcs will consume assume the cost of
these tests and the testing will be done
on the work site thank you for your time
and your consideration
thank you miss parker
if y'all are like me you've been
watching the
news and the phone for any hint of what
the supreme court's going to do but as
of yet at five o'clock the last time i
looked they had not ruled
i hope
and i pray that they will rule to not
enforce that
for anybody but you know that's yet to
be seen
as soon as they do then we'll know which
direction we need to go okay
at this time dr jessica jones i always
call the other dr jones
from a pea
i hope you had a nice christmas
and a good break
i did and you're ready to go
well you know
i was asked when did you take time and
and the response is
take time to do what
because you know there's always
something that needs to be done
but uh it was truly an opportunity to
spend time with family i will tell you
i actually went to kentucky
so we had gathered some items for the
group i was telling you about
and we had clothes we had
food
tarps the list goes on
so i actually left after my commission
meeting
in
charlottesville on that wednesday and
drove out and met with the ag teacher
and uh it was beautiful we fellowship
for a little bit
however she did share with me that her
co-teacher was actually flown to
nashville and was put on a ventilator
because he had caught covet and he was
going through some some rough patches
so i would ask that that we continue
just to lift those up in prayer
at this time and um but that was a part
of me being santa claus for other people
so i did enjoy doing that and spending
time with my family as well thank you
for asking sir
i do want to say happy new year to all
of y'all
i hope that you all had a restful break
that you were able to have reflection
and and have the opportunity to share
that with your loved ones
again this is a time that we continue to
see
good emerging but we also know that
there are things that are out there that
are just holding us down and holding us
back and prayerfully we'll work through
those and society will work through
those
i will tell you now
that we are excited to see some good
changes coming in the future like you
said with the supreme court hopefully
the right will prevail
and earnestly we know that in all
decision making
we just have to deal with whatever it is
as it comes
so to miss merrick's welcome to the
board
truly glad to have you as a part of this
network
and we look forward to you and your new
educational leadership role and working
with you and the positive things that
are going to come out of that
in your tenure here so congratulations
and welcome thank you uh you're welcome
also mr dolls reverend ramsey if i could
do a back flip because somebody said i'm
black flipping right
super excited for you gentlemen thank
you so much for taking on this new
leadership role as chair and vice chair
we wish you much peace
and your transition and we thank you for
taking on this leadership role
we look forward to working with you all
as we have in the past and to the board
as a whole
and again seeing the good things that
come in the days and weeks and months
the years that lie ahead
now i will say at the december meeting
when i left you i left you with thoughts
and prayers
right
for success for grace for peace for
respect
and faith
in your decision-making
and i was taught and if you don't know
my background one of my grandmothers was
a
baptist pastor
the other one was pentecostal
matter of fact my baptist pastor
she actually preached in the church that
my great-great-grandmother established
so you can imagine what sunday's was
like for me right
but they taught me something both of
those ladies and all those in my life
that whatever you end on in the old year
that you begin with in the new year
so
i pray
that you are granted the serenity
to accept the things that you cannot
change
the courage to change the things that
you can
and the wisdom to know the difference
that as you work and that you serve
on a day-to-day basis
that you do that one day at a time
and enjoy the moments that bring you joy
and pride
and the accomplishments that your
students
and only your staff bring to you
understanding that you accept the
hardships as a pathway to peace
knowing that all decisions are not easy
in your professional or personal life
but having taken into thoughtful
consideration
the concerns
and the valued input
of your students your staff and your
families
and trusting that all things will be
made right
please make sure that you focus your
decisions
upon our safety
our health
our well-being
and our prosperity at the forefront of
what you do
and the service to this board and all
the communities
understanding that the body that is here
to learn and work looks to you not to be
perfect
but to be fair right and just
in all that you do that impact all in
each one of us
may you be reasonably happy with the
decisions that you make
and that they may be a true reflection
of making pennsylvania county schools a
great place to learn and work
for all of us
and all of us follow suit
so this i pray for you and unto you
as this season will continue to change
but that the decisions are made are made
right
and that you are at peace with them
thank you
thank you dr jones
we're going to move on to staff and
committee reports at this time we're
going to talk about the budget ms worley
you're going to give us some good news
hopefully
maybe
don't know
the next two items are budget so if you
want to take both of them same time
it'll be great yes sir i will good
evening mr chairman school board members
and staff and students happy to be here
with you tonight
um the first item are the budget request
and you should have had a new copy at
your chair tonight so there have been a
few updates from the list that you
received last week
and as i said last week
we will be meeting on thursday night to
go over these staff plans to meet
tomorrow
and maybe even on thursday if we have to
to present to you some priorities
from the staff as we've done in the past
and if you have any questions or
concerns over this list please contact
me
email phone call i'll be happy to answer
any questions for you
okay
and i think that list it may have come
down a little bit from last thursday
it's still pretty large i think forgot
to refresh my memory on the number
how much is it mr dos there's still more
money than we have so it does
it's always more money than we have
can't get to the last page
it's a big number what 14 million maybe
um i do want to share with you just a
little bit of news about the um the
budget for the next biennium
we did talk about this last week i don't
have any um new news
from last week but i thought i would
just briefly go over this um
for for the public
um the biennium the 2324 biennium as i
said the local composite index has
increased to
25.11
and just what that means it went up from
24.46
and that means that our locality can pay
a larger share um for the upcoming
biennium
we talked about the no loss funding
that's been in our budget for fiscal
year 21 and 22.
next year that's going to transition in
the next biennium to re-benchmarking
hold harmless
that money is going to cover it covers
three different areas that include
special the special education child
count is covered with that pupil
transportation and non-personal support
cost
that's where that money comes in to help
cover some of those losses in our soq
funding
in the past the no loss funding
did not have a local match and that is
new for us the re-benchmarking hold
harmless does have a local match
so our
board of supervisors will be paying
their share of that funding
and of course as always this the
proposed budget
includes the
routine re-benchmarking updates and we
heard from
we were in richmond yesterday and today
dr jones was there with us yesterday
and k-12 re-benchmarking was flat
we learned
in the governor's proposed budget
and of course sales tax and lottery
funds have been updated
just a few new funding areas there is a
five percent increase in both years of
the biennium so when staff is hearing a
10 percent salary increase that is 5
percent in 23 and 5
and 24.
um and you must give at least two and a
half percent in order to receive the
state funding and that's in both years
of the biennium
and for pcs a one percent increase for
all employees cost about six hundred and
fifty four thousand dollars
there is school construction grant money
in the fiscal year twenty three budget
it's around four million dollars for
pennsylvania county schools and that
money is for non-recurring construction
renovation technology and debt service
and we will have through fiscal year
2025 to spend that money
english as a second language is
increased the ratio is changing there
from 18 positions per 1000 students to
20 positions per 1000 students and
that's a ratio of of 1 to 50 for us
and right now with our current
population we're one at 47.
um virginia preschool the per pupil
amount is increasing for that program
it's going from
and fifty 7
dollars to eight thousand three hundred
and fifty nine dollars per pupil
we are receiving a very large increase
again in our at risk funds um that's
been going up as you know for the past
few years we're looking at about 2.9
million dollars just in state funds
alone for fiscal year 23
but we need to be leery of the fact that
we're going to lose part of that money
in fiscal year 24. about 1.6 million
dollars so that's just going to be
one-time money for 23.
early reading program is going to be
expanding to include
right now it's k-3 and that's going to
k-5
the um grocery tax the 1.5 grocery tax
the the proposal includes eliminating
that in
effective january 1 2023
and we did learn this week that the
grocery tax it's 2.5 percent the state
share and then the local share and that
does make up about 20 percent of the
state's sales tax so right now in the in
the biennium we have a line item in
there to make up this difference that
we'll lose but we certainly need to
lobby for that to be you know either
moved up into
additional sales tax money from the
state or into basic aid for the future
because that you know we will lose that
money
going forward
um the last thing i want to say about
this budget the um
the local required minimum you know our
adm is going down i mean we've been
facing that for several years we're
still looking at
2023 the budget is based on 7430.45
students
currently we are sitting as of september
30th we're at 7552
and even though that's going down for
the new biennium
the local required minimum and the
minimum as you remember is the the
bottom dollar that the board of
supervisors must give us
in order for us to receive all of our
state funding
is going to increase to 20 million one
hundred and thirty one thousand and
thirty dollars that's about four hundred
thousand dollars more than what the
board is giving us currently
and you know they have worked very hard
over the last few years to fund us above
the minimum
[Music]
right now they are 11.3 percent above
they're giving us 19 million seven
hundred and thirty six thousand dollars
and and just in order to stay at the
minimum you know they're looking at an
increase for next year
you know when we're looking at
you know lower
adm numbers so it is it's i have already
shared this information with the county
so it is something that we will be
talking about and i i do want you to
know that
even at the 11.3 percent above the
minimum
we are still in local funding we are 125
out of 132 school divisions
so um so we still have a lot of room to
grow there and and some changes to be
made
we did not really learn a lot about the
budget no more than what we know from
the governor's proposed budget but we do
know we have three more versions i guess
you would say to to um to see and that's
going to be the new governors
the senate and the house and today we
had representatives one from senate and
one from house come speak to us
and i would just say that it's very
positive there are a lot of revenues at
the state right now
we are coming in at 12
above
the forecast for the current year for
state revenues
and one of the gentleman said today that
he believes the that governor northrup's
budget is just a starting point
that we're going to be seeing more
things coming from either the new
governor or from the house or senate
so we'll we'll have to wait to see if
that comes to fruition
but what i want to throw out a couple of
numbers for you tonight and that is the
additional state revenue for the fiscal
year um
from this year's budget to next year's
budget for 23. we're looking at about
9.2 million dollars more in state money
the additional 400 000 at least from the
locality so that's 9.6 million dollars
that we get to start at the top with
but what we have to do is take away any
designated revenues
and those are textbooks summer school
the vpi program school food and
breakfast early reading the school
construction money of over 4 million
dollars the one-time at-risk funding we
certainly don't want to use that for
ongoing expenditures and then a small
amount for project graduation
so in order to if you take off the
capital projects on the list that i gave
you because we can look at the four
million dollars helping with those
we've got about 2.7 million dollars in
new money
to work with based on the governor's
introduced budget
so that's what we will be looking at um
for
thursday night
okay
so any questions
any questions
were you gonna hit on the the re-bench
marking i don't want to steal your
thunder you go right ahead do you want
me yes
okay so we um
one of our classes was on the support
cap you know which was removed during
the recession so it's been about ms
worley concerning the budget
mr moon you have any comments concerning
the budget right
yes sir now only question i have is now
that we're changing governors saturday
do we know about when we think we'll
start getting real numbers i mean you
know this budget we're working on now is
not going to be the budget we know that
right
so do we have any idea coming out did
they give you any idea that this week
no we had thought maybe he that he had
been asked to come
speak to us yesterday but but he um
was not there so but nobody i have not
heard anything okay
okay
all right thank you miss worley
all right does anybody have any question
on the remaining desk reports
i'd like to make a comment
okay
p-s-a-p-s-a-t
scores
results
okay
the scores i've seen that's when you can
hear most cases were down
on these and sols last year but not
nearly can y'all hear
scores may have been damn but not nearly
as much as neighboring divisions
i try to look at that but i want to
commend one school that did actually
increase their scores and that was
chatham high school
that's it
so mr burton i asked the same question
as a superintendent when we had our
agenda meeting and
he they they aware of it miss petty i
know was working on it um
we've got a lot of work to do i was a
little disappointed in them honestly
but there are a few reasons um not
besides covet
so they're aware of it they are going to
work on it
yeah but if you look at the
divisions around us we've still fared
much better that's what i was afraid of
yeah
but honestly they wasn't where i would
have liked to have seen them
compared to state
any other questions on the desk reports
do i have a motion to approve the desk
reports then
make that motion
i'll second
any other discussion
roll call then
all right mr doss aye mr henderson aye
ms merricks aye mr mills aye mr moon
reverend ramsey aye
mr superintendent good news yes sir mr
burton i'm sorry mr doss i'll get it
right hey two years i understand
school board members um
yeah i do have good news tonight but um
i i will say that i did speak with mr
craig this afternoon spoke mr petty as
well regarding the the psat results and
we will surely we're looking at those
we always look at the data we always
monitor the data
and we respond to the data that we have
and make corrections and that's kind of
just that's how we operate and so we
surely will make those adjustments up to
to improve student outcomes
first first item i have this this
evening mr dawes is um i've sent a
letter based upon you all's request the
last meeting to mr dave arnold he's now
the assistant county administrator
requesting the board of supervisors
requested circuit court judge to place
the sales tax referendum for school
capital projects on the november
22 ballot so that's been done
they will have that on their agenda next
tuesday night the 18th and i'll be there
to speak with them about that
and so i'll let i'll have an update for
you all after that meeting
mrs worley did i was in richmond with
mrs worley with vasbo and bass of
yesterday
and
did hear good news about the budget she
did a thorough job in providing that
information to you all but i think the
takeaways that i have is we are 125 of
based upon per pupil and that's the
apples to apples comparison of school
divisions across the state you take your
per pupil the amount that you spend per
child how does that compare to the other
divisions you know the 132 were 125.
so
whatever we do is constrained by that
when when staff asks for extra positions
we have to find those dollars
we talk
miss swirly spoke about the support cap
and the support cap
is a cap on the number of support
positions that you can fund there's also
soq funding and in the soq funding it
also provides
an amount of funding per staff member
both of those
through re-benchmarking the soq can be
changed but the support cap was was put
in place during tim kaine's tenure in
2010 as a way to save money
for the state
and that has not been lifted since 2010
and mrs worley mentioned that's cost us
27 million dollars in state revenues
that we could be used
to fund positions like teachers
like reading specialists like math
specialists
like
paraprofessionals in classrooms
but yet because of that loss of funding
we have been we have had to kind of
find money to to fund these types of
positions that we need in our classrooms
so
your efforts with our legislators is
important the revenues are there at the
state level both last year the revenues
were well above projections last year i
believe they mentioned 24
anywhere from 14 to 24
this year the projection is 12 for this
year so the money is there
and they're going to be but they're
going to be a lot of different groups
that are lobbying for that money and so
i would encourage board members to seek
out our legislators your legislators to
speak with them
you know about the importance of k-12
anyone in the audience tonight to speak
out for k-12 education
in particular our division
we have always done well if you look at
our scores we've always done well but
that's because of these people our staff
members who work so hard to put good
things in place
but we need extra supports
and so mention to eliminate the sport
support cap and to re-fully re-benchmark
the soq
just for instance and i don't mean to
belabor the point but just for instance
so under soq funding we're funded for
7.3 elementary principles
but we have 10 schools we have 10
principals so we have to find funding
for 2.7 principals
the same number of elementary librarians
7.3 librarians we have to find 2.7
librarians in the budget
we are only funded for for kindergarten
teachers we have 10
elementary schools we're funded for
19.46
elementary teachers if you divide that
by 10 that's two per school
we have to find additional staff
money to pay for these staff positions
so when we get a raise when we get
raised from the state
that money pays for soq positions so we
have to find the additional money for
raises through local funding
i believe they mentioned that 54
of the money for for the raise will come
from localities 46 is covered by the
state
so divisions you know we have to find
ways to be sure that our staff are
compensated
so
as you
speak with legislators
please mention those points to them
that's all i have regarding budget miss
worley have you thought of anything else
you'd like to share regarding budget
okay thank you
the next item that i have is a memo
addressing coven 19 protocol
and i provided that for your information
there were two there was a table
of two different ways that we addressed
cobia 19 the current
practice protocol and then the vdh
cdc
uh
new recommendations that's also been
vetted through the virginia part of
education
and i'd like to kind of provide a
snapshot of what that new
process or protocol would look like
for isolation
of five days at home if symptoms are
improving and if no fever and not using
fever reducing medications then return
with proper fitting mask for the
additional five days
the individual will practice strict
mitigating measures
if the individual is unable to
consistently correctly wear a mask then
they would have to stay home or have to
isolate for 10 days for quarantine
if vaccinated as defined by
the the vdh and that's to have the
appropriate
of shots both shots in the appropriate
booster
zero days so if you're quarantining if
you have quarantine like we used to
quarantine for 10 days now
you would just come back but you'd be
required to wear the mask and practice
strict mitigation strategies
if
unvaccinated uh five days at home
uh
from the last day of exposure and then
return with a proper fitting mask for an
additional five days and then the
individual practice of strict mitigating
strategies
we met today i met with our school nurse
coordinators i met with mrs haymore and
the other assistant superintendents to
discuss the new protocol
and based upon this conversation today
i would like to request other
pennsylvania county school board that we
begin a transition to the new protocol
a beginning effective at the end of the
meeting today if it's approved and then
uh to have it fully implemented by next
tuesday
so any questions regarding any of those
items
i believe that's a new business action
it is it'll take up later so yes sir i
won't ask for motion now but we will
discuss it under new business okay and
then just other items i have the vsba
capital conference is january the 24th
uh it's the richmond delta hotel
and then the new orientation of the
orientation for new
school members is on the 25th at the
delta hotel in richmond
and that's all i have is tim
okay thank you dr jones
um
there's no unfinished business
we'll start with new business um we need
to schedule a date for the school board
retreat
the staff has asked that we try to do it
february the 5th on a saturday does
anybody have a conflict with that
anybody
what time
about 8 30 to 3 is it okay with
everybody
can i get a motion for that then please
so move
second
any other discussion on a retreat date
roll columbus hancock mr burton aye mr
doss aye mr henderson aye ms merricks
aye mr mills aye mr moon all right
reverend ramsey hi
next item is appointment of the school
board committees you have at your seat a
sheet that with that on it
i won't take time to go over it i did
not change very much at all
if you have any questions please see me
after the meeting i'll be happy to talk
to you
the next item is approval of the student
tuition rate
and i believe you've asked that stay the
same yes dr jones
so i need a motion to
approve the tuition tuition rate for 22
23 at the same rate with currently
george
i'll make the motion
second
any discussion on it
roll columnist hancock mr burton aye mr
doss all right mr henderson ms marx mr
mills aye mr moon all right reverend
hi
the next item is a joint budget meeting
with the board of supervisors i would
like to do that as soon as we can get
some dates from them too i don't know
that we have any you have at your desk a
calendar
that
do you have
you want to see if they want to try to
do it the 15th maybe while they're
already having a work session
we've done that before right
yeah it would have to be earlier than
that
last time we did it before that work
session it began at 4 30. can
do y'all want to try to do that you want
to try to see if they'll do a separate
one
4 30 too early for some of you
i'd like to meet with them as soon as
they're willing to meet with us
you want to check with them ms hancock
and see if the 15th and then just let us
know
and then we'll go from there
i'm going to get her to check to see if
they willing to do it before the work
session on the 15th their session's
scheduled to start at 4 30.
maybe we can meet with them at 3 45 or 4
o'clock or something like that
they have
quite a few new members on their board i
think it's important that they hear what
the benchmarks have been changed
what that how that impacts us
and where are we at dr jones at the 125
i think they need the new members really
need to understand that
mr barrett yeah i think also that some
of the new members may not
know what we mean by standards of
quality
and what the
what these other percentages are
but i also would like miss hancock to
get us a list of their committees
i haven't seen it in the paper yet who's
on which committee for them
can you do that
okay i'll have her send that to y'all
all right we'll get her to check with
that and see if we can meet with them on
the 15th
okay
um the next item i have is tutoring pay
dr jones you wanna
yeah
about that uh miss patty would you like
to make okay
we we have met regarding pay for
tutoring we have teachers that tutor
after school many afternoons
sometimes we tutor on saturdays and
sometimes they even tutor on sundays
to ensure kids are learning it at high
levels
the tutoring the 20 per hour
has been
available we paid that since i was
assistant superintendent that was
2007 or even earlier
and it's been in existence since that
time
we thought that we need to encourage
staff and and really support staff and
and go who who go the extra mile and so
we would like to propose a like request
this evening that the board would
approve uh going to a 30 per hour
rate you know the teacher teaches all
day
and then
they we ask them to stay after in many
businesses you know if you work longer
there's some type of accommodation for
after hours work and so we thought it
would be very appropriate this time to
to provide a 30 per hour
rate for for teachers who tutor you know
they bring us
quite a bit of expertise when they work
with students
um and so we just would like to ask that
this evening
do i have a motion
any other discussions anybody have any
questions for the superintendent of ms
patty on this
i have a question on the uh on the
tutoring
are we saying that uh and because i
don't know i just need an answer um
at any given time can you tell me about
how many
are tutoring during the week
it would i'm sorry i can't hear
funding sources you i can compile that
information and get it to you
for the next board meeting i can get it
to you sooner
if you like it in a report that can
happen for the next four years
and
i guess
i'm probably going to be out of line
when i say that most of the stuff that i
say is usually out of line but i'm going
to do it anyway
um
do we ever consider
raising the pay for substitute teachers
i mean looks like to me that's the most
important thing in our system right now
is we can't find substitute teachers
and yet we want to
upgrade the tutoring pay scale
and i think if we raised it pay for
substitute teachers
um we'd be more successful in that end
of it again just just a thought i'm not
against anybody getting a pay raise
what i am against is
a lot of people not getting a raise when
they should
and i feel like substitutes
are probably just as important
if not more so than than tutoring is
although tutoring is important i won't
take away from that but
just my thoughts
we have this discussion i can't i
apologize i said i said at home and i
look at the board of supervisor meeting
on youtube and i have no problem hearing
anybody say anything until i get myself
in this building
i just wanted to share that we had this
conversation
after reviewing the sol
test scores
from the
fall testing and based on those results
and knowing that that is a result of the
learning loss that has been experienced
due to the pandemic
we had the conversation that we really
needed to do something to hopefully
encourage
our staff to take advantage of those
additional funds that we've received
from the federal government
and that we have at the state level
because we really do need to support
our students with that additional
intervention and remediation so that
that's one of our main goals because we
really do want to maintain
our 100
accreditation status and right now we're
really worried about not having any
waivers and we know that the expectation
is that we make the benchmarks for this
school year
thank you for your consideration
will this also include tutoring for
teachers outside of sol areas
to increase graduation rates
yes so this tutoring would be for all
areas okay
yes ma'am
i'm correct though that the increase is
for
uh tutors that have a bachelor's i see a
health change
remain um
current for them so it's either teachers
or retired teachers that or or any of
our staff who have a bachelor's degree
okay are y'all clear with that
and i do believe that sub pay is a
on the budget request mr henderson and
you are correct we're going to have to
address that
um we did raise the pay for substitutes
in january one and we do them
it's a budget request to look at it
again
okay
any other questions discussion
bro columnist hancock mr burton aye mr
doss aye mr henderson aye ms merricks
aye mr mills aye mr moon aye reverend
ramsey all right
and that brings us down to our covet
updates and approvals
what you have was in your packet is the
guidelines
that we're currently under i think the
new guidelines are more in line with the
cdc correct ms
yates correct i see her shaking her head
yes
dr jones is asked that they implement
that
between now and next tuesday
if we follow what we have been following
since this whole thing started
then we would adopt these guidelines
that's what the cdc is recommending
so i will need a motion to do that i
move we accept the recommendation of the
superintendent
have a second
a second
is there any other discussion on that
roll columnist hancock mr burton aye mr
douse aye mr henderson aye ms merricks
aye mr mills aye mr moon
reverend ramsey hi
okay i do want to make a couple of
statements
one of them is regarding covet
i know i have received quite a few phone
calls and texts regarding the letter
that went out asking if you were
vaccinated or not
we had a teacher speak tonight about it
and maybe somebody can help me but i
have
i have doug and doug and doug in the
osha regulations that the supreme court
is now we're waiting on a decision
and i have not been able to find an
exemption anything that talks about any
exhibition in it
the only thing i've been able to find is
in the actual
um emergency order that osha is trying
to implement
is two things you're either vaccinated
or you're not vaccinated
if you're not vaccinated you will be
tested weekly or every seven days
and that's all i can find i know that
people have talked about exemptions
but i didn't see anything in there that
said exemptions did anything it's one of
two things you either had the
vaccination or you haven't
i know some companies
have
opted to do different about vaccinations
but i don't believe pennsylvania county
schools
is going to fire anybody whether they're
vaccinated or not i don't think anybody
sitting here has the intent to do that
and that was some of the calls i got was
were they going to lose their job if
they were not vaccinated
and i've never heard that mentioned at
all to me or this board
so right now i'm pretty sure the answer
to that is no unless the government
changes the rules we certainly won't
so for those who and i know there's a
lot of teachers probably watching
tonight that are nervous about it
you either vaccinated or you're not we
just need to know um if the supreme
court comes back and says you need to be
tested if you're not vaccinated then we
need to know that so we can put plans in
place we've got to february the 9th to
do that
so
please let your principals know
we're not trying to single out anybody
or or make it hard on anybody
you can you can have an exemption if you
want one but if he's not vaccinated
you're still going to get tested
irregardless
so
i hope that will clear it up a little
bit
and put some people at ease
but let's hope the supreme court at
least puts a stay on it or or drops it
all together
i really do not like that particular
mandate but
you know it's up to the courts now it's
not up to us
i know they working to try to get a
policy in place which was supposed to be
in place today i think
um
that going forward what what we will do
as far as testing and tracking and all
of those things
so i want everybody to to please just
let it let you know if you vaccinated or
not it doesn't matter we just need to
know so we can get an accurate count
so that we know how many would have to
be tested if that comes to be
okay
um another thing i would like to say is
i'd like to thank mr burton for the last
two years that he served as chairman
it's been a difficult two years for this
board
it's been an extremely difficult two
years for public education
there's been unprecedented things that
he and the superintendent had to
navigate through and i know it's been
tough on him it's been tough on the
superintendent it's been tough on every
employee in pennsylvania county schools
and i thank them for their hard work and
i thank him for his service
i would also like to recognize ms
merrick's tonight
it's our first meeting miss marks it's
good to have you on board thank you look
forward to working with you good to see
you here everyone as well
and
i hope everybody had a wonderful
christmas and ready for the
second half of the year
and with that if anybody has any
comments mr chairman i have one question
yes again from miss petty
and for the
teachers moms and dads whoever is in
youtube listening to area tonight
it's my understanding that
well let me back up and say i've had
several phone calls about some of the
schools not
submitting requests
for the junior beta convention in
hampton
if i'm looking at this right there's
only two schools
thus far
that has requested overnight field trips
and that being
dan river high school athletic state
wrestling in salem
and then the
mount airy elementary junior beta club
in hampton so are these the only two
schools that have requested any
overnight trips
with us
no sir back in december we submitted the
first
group of names that requested to attend
the beta and junior beta and they do
have the option to participate virtually
so some of the schools that are not
going to to go overnight we'll be
participating virtually
okay and i wasn't at the december
meeting i think i was out of town at
that particular time but um so there's
mr henderson i got bad news for you they
just canceled the junior beta in person
today
so it will be virtual only is the word i
got a few minutes ago and we knew that
was a possibility yeah okay only reason
i know i got a grandson that
participates and then i got word today
that it was
at least the junior i don't know about
the regular junior date it was cancelled
been told so if you've had eight or nine
schools requested shouldn't they be
shown here on this uh memo of january
5th
no that's probably
some of these are asked early on in the
year way back in september october they
know they're going to do what they'll
ask early on and we submit them monthly
essay so it's not a cumulative okay for
you guys in tv land beta has been
cancelled so we don't worry about it
[Laughter]
any other questions
mrs
in your in your
packet this evening is a copy of the
policy
that would have to be approved if the
supreme court rules in favor of the
vaccination and testing mandate
i just want you all to be aware of that
that that's the policy we have to have a
policy in place
so i would like to ask this evening the
policy is written according to elizabeth
you and the policy is written
to allow board to approve it
and it's only
becomes effective if the
supreme court rules in in favor of that
ets
so you want us to pass a public policy
contingent if it if the supreme court
does not knock it down basis yes sir
that's right
what's the number of that policy policy
g-b-e-h and that's the policy we talked
about last meeting right and it's in
your packet this evening
i have a motion to approve that policy
then based on
what the supreme court does
still move
any other discussion
roll call please
thank you second
second
roll call
mr dodge hi henderson hi it's mayor
neal
hi
thank y'all for coming tonight i hope
you have a safe trip back home
and more to come
you